---
title: "Teaching Writing Online: An Annotated Bibliography"
date: "2016-07-14"
---

\[expand title="Blair, Kritine and Cheryl Hoy. (2006). Paying Attention to Adult Learners Online: The Pedagogy and Politics of Community_. Computers and Composition, 23 (1)_. 32-48."\]

This study looks specifically at adult learners in online composition class, but makes a number of conclusions that apply equally well to all online learners. Hoy and Blair write about a fully online course in Bowling Green’s “Prior Learning Assessment Program,” which assesses what kind of credit students should get for existing experience and expertise. The study focuses chiefly on the online interactions between adult non-traditional students and the instructors, but also how the students interact with each other. The most useful takeaway from the article is its illustration that instruction in online writing classes often takes place “outside” the course. Private emails, chats, and other types of interaction taking place beyond the “walls” of the LMS often make up the most substantive teaching, in this case of adult distance learners specifically. This can create problems for assessment and administration, as there is no good way to track this interaction (though I’d argue that the same thing happens in f2f writing courses). The specific analyses of interactions between student and instructor are useful and applicable for our classrooms (especially WRIT 250). \[/expand\]

 

\[expand title="Brown, Victoria. (2011) Changing Demographics of Online Courses. _US-China Education Review_, _8 (4)._ 460-467."\]

This article explores different issues that may affect the learning styles of learners who chose online classes as opposed to face-to-face classes. The “Grasha-Riechmann student learning student style scales” was used in the study to determine the learning styles of students in either online or face-to-face classes. Ultimately, the difference between learning styles vs. online or face-to-face class is becoming less of a concern for students and convenience is the main impetus in the choice of online or in-class instruction.

Early studies suggested online students were more independent learners, but recent studies narrow the gap between the personality of the face-to-face student and the online student. Brown suggests the improved communication tools and instructional strategies that promote social presence in these courses as another reason for the growing population of online students.

The author also notes a familiarity with the online teaching concept as a reason for choosing the online format because of so many hybrid classes being offered at universities and many high school students have some experience with online interfaces such as Blackboard. So as students feel more comfortable with the online course experience they are now demanding it more.

The study suggests the student is making decisions based on convenience for both online and face-to-face. For online students the convenience may concern time-management and on-campus students are concerned about location. Those students taking on-campus classes are more concerned about their learning style when selecting face-to-face classes, but also their desired class may not have been offered online or all online classes were full. “With new technology tools available, professors are going to be able to address learning styles in distance classes in numerous ways” (Brown). The study suggests that learning styles will become less of an issue with less text-based online classes and more multimedia based. In future studies of who is taking online classes: “Understanding of learning styles research could be redirected from who are attending classes to how students with different learning styles use the different types of tools available to interact with instructional materials” (Brown). \[/expand\]

 

\[expand title="DePew, Kevin and Heather Lettner-Rust. (2009) Mediating Power: Distance Learning Interfaces, Classroom Epistemology, and the Gaze. _Computers and Composition, 26._ 174-189"\]

DePew and Lettner-Rust examine how the interfaces used for online instruction affect both the pedagogy and the power dynamics between teachers and students. The authors note that online interfaces (and institutional training for online instructors) have traditionally supported a banking model of education - lectures, quizzes, etc. - but argue that such an approach is not effective for writing instruction. Instead, they propose a problem-solving approach, and their case studies, conducted at Old Dominion University, examine how three types of interfaces might support and hinder such an approach. The correspondence course model confines interaction to asynchronous textual exchanges between teacher and student. Students aren’t visible to the instructor, which DePew and Rust argue can be beneficial, since instructors can’t make the kinds of judgments based on appearance that might negatively affect their perceptions of their students. The simulated classroom (like Blackboard) is the most familiar to us as writing instructors. These interfaces allow for interaction between students as well as between student and instructor. They also enable instructors to monitor exchanges between students, perhaps better than they could in a traditional classroom. The final interface discussed is synchronous video. Primarily used for lecture, the available interfaces for synchronous video communication disrupt the gaze (through camera angles, bad connections, etc.), making it impossible to replicate the kinds of interaction that take place in the traditional classroom. But DePew and Rust argue that these interfaces also empower students to choose how they appear (students can manipulate the angles of their webcams, for instance), altering the power dynamic in the student’s favor. The authors ultimately suggest that a combination of interfaces seems likely to provide the best support for a problem-solving pedagogical approach. They go on to suggest further examination - at the institutional level, of how technological interfaces shape teaching practices. \[/expand\]

 

\[expand title="Loren, Roni. (2012, May 20). Bloggers Beware: You CAN Get Sued for Using Pics on Your Blog - My Story. Blog Entry. Retrieved from http://www.roniloren.com/blog/2012/7/20/bloggers-beware-you-can-get-sued-for-using-pics-on-your-blog.html"\]

[http://www.roniloren.com/blog/2012/7/20/bloggers-beware-you-can-get-sued-for-using-pics-on-your-blog.html](http://www.roniloren.com/blog/2012/7/20/bloggers-beware-you-can-get-sued-for-using-pics-on-your-blog.html)

This blog post examines a lawsuit that Roni Loren, a _New York Times_ bestselling author, went through because she inadvertently posted a copyrighted photograph on her blog. Loren was served with a DMCA (takedown) notice, and although she quickly complied, was sued for compensation by the photographer. In this post, Loren shares her story, and cautions others regarding the use of images not only on blogs, but on social media sites like Tumbler and Pinterest. Loren offers advice on where you can locate safe images to use (i.e. Creative Commons, Wikipedia Commons, etc.) while outlining some little known facts about Fair Use, and why blogs are not usually protected under it. Loren also admits that her ignorance in the matter is no excuse, and that she was clearly in the wrong. This would be an excellent post to share with students as they begin working on their multimodal projects. Although, projects completed for educational purposes due tend to fall under the protection of fair use, it would enable students to better understand why we are so very strict regarding citation; it does have real world applications that are very important. \[/expand\]

 

\[expand title="Miller, Susan. (2001). A Review of research on distance education in _Computers and Composition_. _Computers and Composition, 18_. 423-30" \]

This article is a literature review of 12 published journal articles from 1994-1999 that Miller splits into two categories—ones that discuss theoretical writing issues in distance education and ones that discuss practical applications of writing instruction online. However, her review of each is too brief to offer much detailed information and thus functions more like an annotated bibliography. Her short summary of each article only prompts the reader to know which articles might be worth reading. So, for instance, we learn that “Royar (1994) introduced critical questioning of the nature of online writing classes, and Quigley (1994) expanded that inquiry to question the nature of online syllabi for writing courses . . . Buckley (1997) introduced critical theorizing of the subject position of the online writing teacher, and Lang (1998) raised questions of intellectual property” (425). All the articles in the practice section focus on how to use online technology to facilitate collaboration between separate parties—as between a college and a high school writing class or between a mentor and mentee at the college level. These pieces are of interest but may be too outdated now. It’s a short piece that is could act as a good jumping off point for someone looking for a quick literature review when conducting their own research. \[/expand\]

 

\[expand title="Meyer, Katrina A. (2014).How Community College Faculty Members May Improve Student Learning Productivity in Their Online Courses. _Community College Journal of Research and Practice,_ _38 (6)._ 575-87."\]

The study discusses the legislative push for more productivity in postsecondary education at the same time the economy is struggling; therefore, online learning is offered as a cost-effective method to save money, while also enabling students to receive a quality education. Meyer claims (through research) that online learning is the perfect balance between efficiency and productivity; it's a win-win for administration, faculty, and students. Meyer also mentions the growth in online learning.

Meyer’s study included 11 full-time instructors who have taught more than 10 online courses. Five southern states, and three western states were represented. Nine subjects were also included. The researcher's aim was to locate themes or consistencies in productive practices in online education. Basically, what helped students learn? Interviews with the 11 participants provided three themes: increasing student engagement, providing structure, and assessing learning.

What we can use from this study is that the participating instructors referenced the importance of the first week of the course, and mentioned that being available to help students understand how the course works during that time is crucial. Also, one instructor leads a discussion board that discusses student fears regarding learning online during the first week; I found this to be a most interesting idea. Another idea worth noting was put forth by a writing instructor who claimed that their use of making peer review worth up to 20% of the course grade improved students reading and editing abilities. The study also mentioned the idea of learning from other experienced instructors, as well as learning and adapting through continued experience with teaching online courses.

\[/expand\]

 

\[expand title="Patricia Patterson. (2001). The Debate about Online Learning: Key Issues for Writing Teachers. _Computers and Composition, 18._ 359-70"\]

Patricia Webb Patterson joins the call to critically examine methods for online instruction, but she frames this project in terms of concerns about the corporatization of the academy. Addressing the resistance faculty members often feel about online courses, Patterson reminds us that, because of the advent of email, and because online courses are heavily textual in nature, “the primary interface of a distance-learning course is the written word,” making “writing teachers' expertise” crucial in developing the very heart of online instruction (359). Thus, even for writing instructors reluctant to teach online, it is crucial for all writing faculty not only to pay attention to the development of online teaching but to participate in this development as one of its leading voices. Acknowledging that resistance to online instruction often fears the corporatization of the academy, Patterson points out that simply ignoring the spread of online instruction doesn't solve this perceived problem. Instructors who refuse to participate in online instruction are merely “abdicat\[ing\] their responsibility to actively participate in the shaping of new roles for instructors” (362), a posture that Patterson critiques as counterproductive. Pinpointing the false dichotomy such resistance creates between “either choosing distance learning and selling out on our belief systems or holding true to our belief systems and resisting distance learning” (363), Patterson believes that developing online instruction does not relegate scholars to the role of mere corporate trainers. Participating in the development of online courses allows any and all writing instructors to benefit, since debates about course design ultimately revolve around reaching newer, more diverse students in newer, more diverse ways. Through online courses, the academy can explore new ways to teach what to many writing instructors is an old and traditional skill. This article would be useful for anyone researching the history of academic resistance to writing instruction, particularly because of the ways Patterson addresses and debunks such counterarguments \[/expand\]

 

\[expand title="Selfe, Cynthia L. (1999). Technology and literacy: A story about the perils of not paying attention. _College Composition and Communication, 50._ 411–436."\]

While a bit dated, Cynthia Selfe's article (“Technology and Literacy”) highlights the fact that technology hasn’t always been central to writing instruction, and in fact met much of the same resistance in 1999 it still meets today. Ascribing this resistance to an insistence on humanism—centering writing instruction on the human instead of the machine—Selfe issues a call for writing instructors not only to use technology more, but also to examine their use of this technology critically. Thus, while championing the use of technology in writing instruction, Selfe cautions against the technology-for-technology's-sake argument: novelty doesn't always translate to utility. Focusing on the Clinton-Gore administration's _Getting Children Ready for the Twenty-First Century_ initiative (1996), Selfe asks us to pay attention to the fact that technological literacy doesn't always lead to automatic success, either. Citing socioeconomic barriers that prevent Black and Hispanic people from having equal access to technology, Selfe asks us to be mindful in our use of technology, acknowledging that, even if we take this resource for granted, this resource isn't guaranteed for all. Because of these factors, “we have little evidence that any large-scale project focusing on a narrowly defined set of officially sanctioned literacy skills will result in fundamental changes in the ratio of people labeled as literate or illiterate” (423). So the burden rests on us as writing instructors to increase technological literacy, which, Selfe argues, must play a central role in any robust writing program. This article would prove useful for anyone researching the history of writing instruction since 2000, particularly for highlighting the political implications of technology literacy in a writing course \[/expand\]

 

\[expand title="Warnock, Scott. (2015). Teaching the OWI Course. _Foundational Practices Of Online Writing_ _Instruction_. Ed. Beth L. Hewett & Kevin Eric DePew. Fort Collins: Parlor Press and the WAC Clearinghouse, 151-81. _Discovery eBooks_. Retrieved from http://wac.colostate.edu/books/owi/foundations.pdf"\]

This entire book--available for free download at the above link--is an essential primer for Online Writing Instruction (OWI). Warnock’s chapter is of particular interest due to its introduction to and discussion of five of the fifteen “OWI Principles” as established by the Conference on College Composition and Communication’s OWI Committee, who in 2013 wrote “A Position Statement of Principles and Example Effective Practices for OWI.” These principles set up a foundation for establishing a successful university OWI program, and in this chapter Warnock focuses on the five principles that outline OWI pedagogical principles.

\[/expand\]

 

\[expand title="Wilhelmina C. Savenye, Zane Olina, and Mary Niemczy. (2001). So you are going to be an online writing instructor: Issues in designing, developing, and delivering an online course. _Computers and Composition_, 18. 371–385."\]

Wilhelmina C. Savenye, Zane Olina, and Mary Niemczy compile a series of guidelines for designing online writing courses, grounding these guidelines both in their own experience and in research. The article reads as something of an extended literature review. Their recommendations form a backbone behind our own Department of Rhetoric's rationale for standardizing online courses: they speak of analyzing student outcomes, tailoring one's course to the needs of distance learners, accommodating different levels of access to technology, organizing one's course as modules or units, providing audio and visual as a supplement to screens of text, and so forth. By providing an accessible outline of all these recommendations, this article would prove useful to any writing instructor who is new to online teaching. \[/expand\]  
  
  

[Go Back](http://library.cwr.olemiss.edu/guides/online/theory/)
