---
title: "Who’s Who in Evicted"
date: "2019-07-25"
---

## Central Individuals

\[table id=16 /\]

## Timeline

_adapted from Eastern Michigan University’s Common Read guide_

<table width="637"><tbody><tr><td width="134"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>April 16, 2013</strong></td><td width="503">On the recommendation of Flint City Council, the state treasurer authorizes Flint to switch its water supply to Flint River water until the new Karegnondi pipeline is completed. The change is projected to save Flint $5 million a year over two years.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>April 25, 2014</strong></td><td width="503">Flint switches its water source to the Flint River.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>October 2014</strong></td><td width="503">The last General Motors plant in Flint stops using the highly chlorinated city water because of concerns regarding corrosion of engine parts. GM switches its water supply to a neighboring township costing Flint $400,000.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>January 2, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">Flint warns residents the water contains disinfectant byproducts that could increase their risk of getting cancer. The water is deemed safe to drink for the general population, but the elderly and parents of young children are urged to consult their doctors.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>January 12, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">The Detroit water system offers to reconnect Flint with its Lake Huron water supply and waive a $4 million reconnection fee, but city officials decline because of concerns rates will rise significantly in the future.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>January 21, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">Flint residents meet over concerns that the water is discolored and is causing rashes and otherwise sickening their children.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>February 2015</strong></td><td width="503">The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality notes "hiccups" in Flint’s switch to the local river water supply, including buildup of carcinogenic disinfectant, but says it’s not a health emergency.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>February 26, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">The U.S. EPA notifies the MDEQ that dangerous lead water levels have been found in the home of Flint resident LeeAnne Walters. Tests showed her water had 104 parts per billion of lead -- about seven times the federal action level of 15 ppb.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>March 18, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">A second test in Walters’ home finds her lead water level at 397 ppb.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>March 23, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">Flint City Council votes to stop using river water and to reconnect with Detroit, but the state-appointed emergency manager overrules the council.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>June 5, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">The first lawsuit is filed against the city, claiming the river water is a health risk.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>June 24, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">The EPA issues a memo reporting high lead levels in Ms. Walters’ water and three other homes and warns corrosion control treatments are not being used.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>July 9, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">Flint Mayor Dayne Walling drinks a cup of tap water on a local television news broadcast to vouch for its safety.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>July 13, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">A MDEQ spokesman tells Michigan Public Radio that initial testing on 170 homes indicates that the lead problem is not widespread.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>August 17, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">After six months of testing finds elevated lead in Flint water supply, the MDEQ orders the city to maximize its use of corrosion controls.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>September 9, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">The EPA announces it will help Flint develop a corrosion control treatment plan.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>October 2, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">The state begins testing water in Flint schools and distributing free water filters.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>October 8, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">Governor Rick Snyder announces Flint will stop using Flint River water.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>October 16, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">Flint switches its water supply back to Detroit’s system.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>November 13, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">Flint residents file a federal class action lawsuit against 14 state and city officials claiming they knowingly exposed residents to toxic water.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>December 14, 2015</strong></td><td width="503">Flint declares state of emergency.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>January 5, 2016</strong></td><td width="503">Governor Snyder declares state of emergency in Genesee County.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>January 12, 2016</strong></td><td width="503">Michigan National Guard is sent to Flint to help distribute free bottled water.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>January 21, 2016</strong></td><td width="503">EPA criticizes the state’s slow response to the water crisis.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>January 27, 2016</strong></td><td width="503">A coalition of organizations, including the American Civil Liberties Union and the Natural Resources Defense Council, files a federal lawsuit against Michigan for alleged violations of the Safe Drinking Water Act.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>March 31, 2016</strong></td><td width="503">The NAACP files a class action lawsuit against Michigan and Governor Snyder on behalf of Flint residents affected by the water crisis.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>April 20, 2016</strong></td><td width="503">Criminal charges are filed against three state and city officials.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>April 25, 2016</strong></td><td width="503">Five-hundred fourteen Flint residents file a class-action lawsuit against the EPA alleging negligence and demanding more than $220 million in damages.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>July 29, 2016</strong></td><td width="503">Six state workers are charged with covering up warning signs of lead poisoning in Flint, according to state prosecutors.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>October 18, 2016</strong></td><td width="503">The ACLU files a class action lawsuit against Flint schools for exposing students to lead-tainted water and inadequately testing them for learning disabilities caused by lead in the water.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>December 20, 2016</strong></td><td width="503">Two former emergency managers and two water plant officials are charged with felonies for getting Flint to help finance a new water line from Lake Huron and temporarily switch its supply to the Flint River.</td></tr><tr><td width="134"><strong>January 24, 2017</strong></td><td width="503">The MDEQ states that six-month tests show lead levels in Flint’s water meet federal drinking water standards.</td></tr></tbody></table>

* * *

## Common Reading Experience Resource Guide

\[one\_half padding="0 25px 0 0"\] [Contents](http://library.cwr.olemiss.edu/guides/cre) \[/one\_half\]

\[one\_half\_last\] [EDHE 105/305](http://library.cwr.olemiss.edu/guides/cre/edhe) \[/one\_half\_last\]
