WRIT 440: Writing for Accountancy
======================================================

.. sidebar:: Contents
    
    .. contents::
        :local:
        :depth: 2

COURSE RATIONALE
-----------------

Accounting students need to be effective communicators if they are to
succeed in their careers, yet many of them lack the communication skills
they need. Almost everyone in the field would agree that there is a need
to help students become better communicators, especially better writers.

The WRIT 440 class offers a unique opportunity to help accounting
students become better writers (and speakers) about accounting. Writing
with precision and clarity about accounting topics can best be taught
within the context of an accounting class, whether this class is a
regular accounting course like principles or intermediate accounting, or
a special course in communication for accounting students.

Teaching writing within an accounting context offers at least two
important advantages. Assignments in this class are designed to help
students learn to write the kinds of documents they will encounter in
the workplace. Thus, they will gain practical experience and a chance to
build usable, job-related skills.

The second advantage is that students are likely to find the writing
assignments assigned to be meaningful, since they can see the connection
between the assignments and job requirements. If they find the
assignments relevant to future job success, they may be motivated to do
their best work and to improve areas where they are weak.

MOTVIATING STUDENTS TO WRITE WELL
----------------------------------

If WRIT 440 students are to improve their communication skills, they
must be convinced that they will need these skills to succeed in their
careers. Even after students are convinced they need to be good writers,
however, there still may be attitudinal problems. Many WRIT 440 students
dislike writing, and they have not had many courses requiring them to
write expository assignments. Some are afraid to write for fear of
failure. These negative attitudes might result from bad experiences
they’ve had in other classes, especially classes where they received
too much negative feedback on their papers.

One way to overcome these attitudes is to stress to attributes about the
WRIT 440 class:

-  They will be writing *about accounting*, which they both understand
   and find interesting. Papers written about accounting topics should
   be easier for them than an analysis of a poem or a research paper
   for a History class.

-  Documents written for business, such as memos and letters, should be
   both simple and direct. Many students will find this type of writing
   easier than the elaborate rhetorical styles encouraged in some
   disciplines.

EVALUATING STUDENT WORK
------------------------

COURSE OUTLINE
---------------

This particular course outline is structured for a regular,
full-semester online section of WRIT 440. This outline can be adapted or
changed depending on the length of term, learning modality, or
individual preferences of the instructor.

The course is structured into a series of modules with various readings
and assignments due each week within the module. A typical semester
course outline is as follows:

*Module 1*: “Start Here”: Introduction to Blackboard Navigation and the
WRIT 440 class

*Module 2*: Accountants as Writers

*Module 3*: Standard English: Grammar, Punctuation, and Spelling

*Module 4*: Understanding Audience

*Module 5*: Organizing Documents for Clarity and Conciseness

*Module 6*: Memorandums and Emails

*Module 7*: Ethics in Accounting

*Module 8*: Understanding Formal Letters

*Module 9*: Researching for Accountants and the Literature
Review/Annotated Bibliography (either assignment can be used, but
students should be assigned a substantive research-gathering assignment
where they have to collect and analyze secondary sources on an
accounting topic)

*Module 10*: The Literature Review/The Annotation Bibliography

*Module 11*: Writing for Employment

*Module 12*: Introduction to White Papers

*Module 13*: The White Paper: Part 1

*Module 14*: The White Paper: Part 2

*Module 15*: The White Paper Final Draft

SAMPLE MODULE(S) BREAKDOWN AND ASSIGNMENTS
-------------------------------------------

MODULE 1: “START HERE”: INTRODUCTION TO THE CLASS/BLACKBOARD NAVIGATION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For this module, do not assume that students are proficient in using
Blackboard. Although most of them can use the LMS, some of them are not
as skilled in locating information as others. If students are more
skilled in using Blackboard, they will be able to complete the module
quickly.

MODULE DESCRIPTION:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Welcome to WRIT 440: Writing for Accountancy! This course covers
rhetorical, analytical, and research skills for writers in accountancy
and related fields. Over the course of the semester, we will write
academic and professional documents in multiple genres and modes. This
first module of the semester familiarizes you with some of the features
of Blackboard as well as offers some tips for success in this online
class.

MODULE OBJECTIVES:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After completing readings and assignments in this module, students
should be able to:

-  Learn the ways to submit an assignment in Blackboard

-  Learn the ways to check their grades in Blackboard

-  Learn the principles associated with Netiquette in an online class

-  Complete a syllabus quiz associated with the course syllabus

-  Write a discussion board post using the discussion board post tool
   in Blackboard

MODULE ASSIGNMENTS
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Professor Introduction Video: record a short video that introduces
you and your background to the class. This can include education, work
experience, why you like teaching, hobbies, etc.

2. “Navigating the Class”: briefly offer some explanations of what the
toolbar commands on the left hand side of the screen “do” in Blackboard.
For example, when students click on the tab that says “Announcements,”
what is that tool used for or how will you be using it this semester?

3. Tips for Success in WRIT 440: here, you can offer some brief
statements or suggestions to help students be successful academically in
your class.

4. Submitting an Assignment and Checking Grades in Blackboard: you can
use the already pre-made videos created by Blackboard and include the
links for students to watch.

5. Netiquette Policy: include a Netiquette policy that students must
read. Have them type an acknowledgement sentence in the “Create
Submission” box and submit that to you.

6. Syllabus Quiz: have students complete and submit a short syllabus
quiz to show they have read and understand many of the policies
contained in the syllabus.

7. Reflection Essay: have students submit a short reflection essay in
order to gain a sample of their writing. Anne Lamont’s Shitty First
Drafts is an essay they love to read and write a reflection.

8. Class Introductions: Discussion Board Post 1: Have students go into
the Discussion Board tool in Blackboard and submit a post that
introduces themselves to their classmates. Students must respond to at
least two (2) classmates’ responses by the deadline in order to receive
full credit.

MODULE 2: ACCOUNTANTS AS WRITERS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

MODULE DESCRIPTION
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The accounting profession has changed dramatically in recent years, due
in part to changing technology, the strength of the global business
environment, increased regulation, and the evolving needs for accounting
services. In spite of these changes, the ability to communicate through
writing effectively is essential to the success of the accounting
profession and in the business world in general.

MODULE OBJECTIVES
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After completing readings and assignments in this module, students
should be able to:

-  Define “soft skills” and understand their importance to a successful
   accounting career

-  Summarize the kinds of documents accountants write as part of their
   professional career

-  Summarize the six tips for effective writing

-  Analyze an example of an accounting document and explain how it
   illustrates effective writing

-  Gain confidence in the ability to write well

-  Explain the interaction between writing and other forms of
   communication, such as a reading, listening, and speaking

-  Explain the connections between writing and problem solving,
   thinking, and ethics.

***MODULE ASSIGNMENTS***: (some assignments correspond with Chapter 1 of
the textbook)

1. Chris May Video Presentation: this short video from Chris May, CPA
MBA, Chief Financial Officer of Mesilla Valley Hospice. In this video,
she talks briefly about the different types of writing accountants
perform every day in their profession and why they are important.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1WBpALy_kUU. After viewing the
presentation, write a short paragraph that addresses some of these
questions/issues. What surprised you about what Chris said? Did you
expect that accountants would have to do those various types of writing
tasks? Why or why not? Do any of those tasks she mentioned make your
nervous? Do you feel particularly skilled in any one of those tasks? Why
or why not?

2. In the \ *Effective Writing: A Handbook for Accountants* textbook,
read Chapter 1 (*Accountants as Communicators*), paying close attention
to the \ *Tips for the Effective Writer*, Figure 1.1 on page 5. Then, read
the attached accounting article from Forbes on the IRS wanting to change
rules on inherited IRA distributions. After reading the article,
consider how effective or ineffective do you find the writing? If you
have trouble reading or understanding what you read, is the problem due
to ineffective writing? If you find the material understandable and
interesting to read, what qualities of writing contribute to this
effectiveness? Refer back to the effective writing tips on page 5 to
support your points/ideas.

Respond to the questions above in a well-written response of at least
100 words (or about 1, typed and double-spaced page, in Times New Roman
or Calibri font only preferred) and submit the response to me an
attachment.

3. For this assignment, look at several published corporate SEC Forms
10-K or annual reports for the most recent year from a company and find
a section from the financial disclosure section(s) they contain. These
can be found by following the links to the listed companies at the New
York Stock Exchange (NYSE) website at www.nyse.com/idex or by going to
www.annualreports.com/

Select a small section of the disclosure that you think is poorly
written and revise it to make it more clear and understandable. In your
submission to me, include the name of the report, where it was found
(NYSE or annualreports.com) and include the small poorly written passage
and then your revision. The entire length of this assignment should be
no longer than one-page, typed and double-spaced using Times New Roman
or Calibri font only.

Please submit the completed assignment to me as an attachment.

3. Discussion Board Post 2: “Soft Skills” for Accountants: Research the
topic “soft skills” and provide a definition and why you think they are
important to the accounting profession. Indicate where you found the
information. In your response to your classmates’ posts, do you agree
with the definition and its importance? Why or why not? Do you have any
personal experience where not understanding soft skills was a problem?
Explain

MODULE 3: STANDARD ENGLISH: GRAMMAR, PUNCTUATION, AND SPELLING
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

MODULE DESCRIPTION
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Accounting is much more than financial statements and debits and
credits. Properly and broadly understood, accounting is all about
communication. Written and oral communication gives the numbers meaning,
context, and focus on a decision.

Incorrect spelling or a lack of punctuation may create confusion. Your
audience may be left guessing what you are trying to say. Spelling
errors and grammatical mistakes may also change the meaning of your
message, which might result in misinformation. Some readers may get back
to you to clarify, others might not; which, in the case of new
prospects/customers, is something you want to avoid. You do not want
poor grammar to cost you business opportunities. In addition, reflective
writing can help you learn from a particular practical experience.
Reflective writing helps you make connections between what you are
taught in theory and what you need to do in practice. Reflection equals
learning.

MODULE OBJECTIVES
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After completing readings and assignments in this module, students
should be able to:

-  Eliminate major sentence errors from your writing: fragments, comma
   splices, and fused sentences.

-  Use verbs correctly, including effective tense, mood, and agreement

-  Use pronouns correctly so that agreement, reference, and gender are
   clear and appropriate

-  Avoid problems with modifiers

-  Write with parallel grammatical structure

-  Use punctuation according to conventional usage: apostrophes,
   commas, colons, and semicolons.

-  Incorporate direct quotations into your writing, following
   conventions of standard usage

-  Avoid problems with spelling

***MODULE ASSIGNMENTS:*** (some assignments correspond with the
textbook)

1. Lecture video on grammar: I recorded a short video lecture on why
grammar is important why we still need to understand its rules and
functions. This assignment can be duplicated or adjusted based on the
instructor preference.

2. Few people have all of the grammar "rules' memorized. As we become
better critical readers and thinkers, as well as writers, our
understanding of the functions of grammar improves. For this assignment,
take the online grammar pretest, located at this
link:   \ https://www.niu.edu/writingtutorial/grammar/quizzes/GrammarSelfTest.htm

When you miss a question, the quiz offers you some clear, concise
information to help you review the grammar rule/concept being assessed.
After completing the quiz, in the submission box, \ **type in the number
of questions your answered correctly** and submit that information to me

3. Grammar Practice Exam:

GRAMMAR PRACTICE EXAM: WRIT 440:

PARTS OF SPEECH

Match each term from the word bank with the underlined part of speech.

.. raw:: html

   <table>
   <tbody>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td>A.Nouns B. Pronouns C. Adjectives D. Verbs E. Adverbs F. Conjunctions G. Prepositions H. Interjections I. Articles</td>
   </tr>
   </tbody>
   </table>

1. \_\_\_\_ I ***am*** tired, but he ***is calling*** me, so I will
   ***answer***.

2. \_\_\_\_ He looked ***under*** the bed, ***in*** the box, and
   ***behind*** the door.

3. \_\_\_\_ The ***beautiful*** sunset was a ***great*** backdrop for
   her selfie.

4. \_\_\_\_ It was ***really*** dark, but the stars were
   ***shockingly*** bright.

5. \_\_\_\_ ***The*** student bought ***an*** apple for his teacher.

6. \_\_\_\_ ***Ouch***! ***Hey***, what did you do that for?

7. \_\_\_\_ ***Although*** mom ***and*** I were tired, we were late,
   ***so*** we ran.

8. \_\_\_\_ At ***halftime***, the ***team*** walked to the ***locker
   room***.

9. \_\_\_\_ Oh, ***I*** think ***that I*** found ***myself*** a
   cheerleader; ***she*** is always right there when ***I*** need
   ***her***.

SUBJECT & PREDICATE

Label which sentence has an underlined simple subject (SS), simple
predicate (SP), compound subject (CPS), compound predicate (CPP),
complete subject (CS), or complete predicate (CP).

1. \_\_\_\_ I ***earned*** good grades on all tests.

2. \_\_\_\_ The election ***is very controversial***.

3. \_\_\_\_ My ***binder*** is full of papers already!

4. \_\_\_\_ ***My two little cousins*** played in the backyard.

5. \_\_\_\_ I ***baked*** a cake and ***wrapped*** his presents.

6. \_\_\_\_ ***Brutus and I*** are huge Ohio State fans.

COMPLETE SENTENCES

Label if each sentence is complete (C) or a fragment (F). \*Optional: If
you want, label the fragments as phrases or dependent clauses. \*

1. \_\_\_\_ The commercial

2. \_\_\_\_ Because the commercial was persuasive

3. \_\_\_\_ The commercial was persuasive

4. \_\_\_\_ Brenda chased the pug around the kitchen

5. \_\_\_\_ Clap along if you feel like happiness is the truth

RUN-ON SENTENCES

Identify if each sentence is correct (C) or a run-on (R).

1. \_\_\_\_ Float like a butterfly, sting like a bee.

2. \_\_\_\_ They may take our lives but they’ll never take our freedom.

3. \_\_\_\_ It’s the circle of life, and it moves us all.

4. \_\_\_\_ My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father, prepare to
   die.

DEPENDENT VS. INDEPENDENT CLAUSES

Identify if each underlined section is dependent (D) or independent (I).

1. \_\_\_\_ ***Since the movie ended***, I’ve been thinking about it.

2. \_\_\_\_ I watch cooking shows ***because I want to be a chef***.  

3. \_\_\_\_ If you don’t do your homework, ***you can’t go to the
   party***.

4. \_\_\_\_ With your love, ***nobody can drag me down***.

SENTENCE TYPES

Label each sentence as simple (S), complex (CX), compound (CP), or
compound-complex (CC). *(Hint: You may want to use skills from the
previous section to do this…)*

1. \_\_\_\_ I am not throwing away my shot.

2. \_\_\_\_ If you don’t stop and look around once in a while, you
   could miss it.

3. \_\_\_\_ Life is like a box of chocolates; you never know what
   you’re going to get.

4. \_\_\_\_ We feel cold, but we don’t mind it because we will not come
   to harm.

DIRECT & INDIRECT OBJECTS

Label if each sentence has underlined a direct object (DO), indirect
object (IO), or neither (N).

1. \_\_\_\_ We bought ***her*** Starbucks.

2. \_\_\_\_ I’m so ***fancy***.

3. \_\_\_\_ You can’t handle ***the truth***.

4. \_\_\_\_ I’m going to make ***him*** an offer he can’t refuse.

5. \_\_\_\_ I will always love ***you***.

ACTIVE & PASSIVE VOICE

Label each sentence as active (A) or passive (P).

1. \_\_\_\_ I took the pretest.  

2. \_\_\_\_ The pretest was taken by a student.

3. \_\_\_\_ The senator made a mistake.  

4. \_\_\_\_ Mistakes were made.  

PARALLEL STRUCTURE

Label the parallel structure in each sentence as correct (C) or
incorrect (I). (Ignore punctuation, and focus on the word choices.)

1. \_\_\_\_ We came, we saw, and we conquered.

2. \_\_\_\_ She’s intelligent, kind, and knows a lot of good jokes.

3. \_\_\_\_ I am the master of my fate; I am the captain of my soul.

4. \_\_\_\_ All of me loves all of you.

4. In the \ *Effective Writing: A Handbook for Accountants* textbook,
read Chapter 5 (*Grammar, Punctuation, and Spelling*). Read the
instructions and revise the memo in Figure 5-10 on page 103. The revised
memo can either be typed in the submission box or typed in a Microsoft
Word document (Times New Roman or Calibri 12-point font only and
double-spaced) and sent to me as an attachment.

MODULE 4: UNDERSTANDING AUDIENCE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

MODULE DESCRIPTION
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When you’re in the process of writing a document as an accountant, it’s
easy to forget that you are actually writing to someone. Whether you’ve
thought about it consciously or not, you always write to an audience:
sometimes your audience is a very generalized group of readers,
sometimes you know the individuals who compose the audience, and
sometimes you write for yourself. Keeping your audience in mind while
you write can help you make good decisions about what material to
include, how to organize your ideas, and how best to support your
argument.

MODULE OBJECTIVES
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After completing readings and assignments in this module, students
should be able to:

-  Analyze an audience

-  Select appropriate tone, language, and format to reach a given
   audience

-  Determine effective content for a message

***MODULE ASSIGNMENTS:*** (some assignments correspond with the
textbook)

1. Video Lecture: Understanding Audience: Please view the following
video lecture by Dr. Mike Schott on understanding audience . Please let
me know if you have any questions about the lecture by typing comments
in the submission box. \ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S7lcvemvzKs

Once you have finished viewing the lecture, write a short summary (5
sentences or less). What was your main takeway from the lecture? Choose
at least one specific topic/detail mentioned in the lecture for
support). That summary can be typed in the submission box and submitted
there, or typed in a .doc or .docx document and submitted as an
attachment.

2. LinkedIn is the world's largest professional network on the
internet. LinkedIn can be used to find the right job or internship,
connect and strengthen professional relationships, and learn the skills
you need to succeed in your career. The program can be accessed from a
desktop, LinkedIn mobile app, mobile web experience, or the LinkedIn
Lite Android mobile app.

More importantly, a complete LinkedIn profile is an example of
understanding audience because as a student and future accounting
professional, the program can help you connect with opportunities by
showcasing your unique professional story through experience, skills,
and education. You can also use LinkedIn to organize offline events,
join groups, write articles, post photos and videos, and more. 

Assignment:

1. Create a LinkedIn Profile with a professional photo.

2. Join an Ole Miss alumni/student connections group (this can be an
accounting specific group or it can be a general Ole Miss group)

3. Connect with five (5) professional contacts (besides classmates or
professors)

4. Join three professional groups

5. Follow three companies that would be potential employers

6. Fully complete as many sections on the profile as possible

7. The profile should be free of surface errors (grammar, sentence
structure, etc).

8. Include the link to the profile in the submission screen/box and
submit to me

\*\*NOTE: If you already have a LinkedIn profile, make sure the
requirements above are included in your current profile. \*\*

3. Review the following lecture notes on Audience Perceptions and how
understanding them can be successful as you write documents to them.
Then, complete the short answer statements that follow. The answers to
the statements can be typed in the submission box below or typed in a
Microsoft Word document and uploaded as an attachment.

Audience Perceptual Strategies for Success

WRIT 440

.. raw:: html

   <table>
   <thead>
   <tr class="header">
   <th><strong>Perceptual Strategy</strong></th>
   <th><strong>Explanation</strong></th>
   </tr>
   </thead>
   <tbody>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td>Become an active perceiver</td>
   <td>We need to actively seek out as much information as possible. Placing yourself in the new culture, group, or co-culture can often expand your understanding.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="even">
   <td>Recognize each person’s unique frame of reference</td>
   <td>We all perceive the world differently. Recognize that even though you may interact with two people from the same culture, they are individuals with their own set of experiences, values, and interests.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td>Recognize that people, objects, and situations change</td>
   <td>The world is changing and so are we. Recognizing that people and cultures, like communication process itself, are dynamic and ever changing can improve your intercultural communication.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="even">
   <td>Become aware of the role perceptions play in communication</td>
   <td>As we explored in <a href="https://saylordotorg.github.io/text_business-communication-for-success/mclean-ch02#mclean-ch02"><em>Chapter 2 &quot;Delivering Your Message&quot;</em></a>, perception is an important aspect of the communication process. By understanding that our perceptions are not the only ones possible can limit ethnocentrism and improve intercultural communication.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td>Keep an open mind</td>
   <td>The adage “A mind is like a parachute—it works best when open” holds true. Being open to differences can improve intercultural communication.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="even">
   <td>Check your perceptions</td>
   <td>By learning to observe, and acknowledging our own perceptions, we can avoid assumptions, expand our understanding, and improve our ability to communicate across cultures.</td>
   </tr>
   </tbody>
   </table>

Examine the table above.

The better you can understand your audience, the better you can tailor
your communications to reach them. To understand them, a key step is to
perceive clearly who they are, what they are interested in, what they
need, and what motivates them. This ability to perceive is important
with audience members from distinct groups, generations, and even
cultures. William Seiler and Melissa BeallSeiler, W., & Beall, M.
(2000). *Communication: Making connections* (4th ed.). Boston, MA: Allyn
& Bacon. offer us six ways to improve our perceptions, and therefore
improve our writing.

| *Short Answer Responses:*
| Directions: Respond to each question with a few sentences for each
  answer. Be specific, but brief.

1. Think of a new group you have joined, or a new activity you have
       become involved in. Did the activity or group have an influence on
       your perceptions?

2. When you started a new job or joined a new group, to some extent
       you learned a new language. Please think of at least three words
       that outsiders would not know and explain them.

4. Discussion Board Post 3: Audience Perceptions: For this discussion
board post, review the lecture notes on perceptual strategies and the
answers to the short response questions. In your discussion board post,
address responses to these questions. Remember to follow the guidelines
for length and format of discussion board posts, located in the Module 4
folder.

1. Think of a new group you have joined, or a new activity you have
become involved in. Did the activity or group have an influence on your
perceptions? Explain the effects to your classmates.

2. When you started a new job or joined a new group, to some extent you
learned a new language. Please think of at least three words that
outsiders would not know and share them with the class and provide
examples.

5. Audience and The Rhetorical Triangle: This video explores the third
leg of the rhetorical triangle: purpose. The purpose of a piece of
writing is determined by its audience. Note the four purposes for
professional communication: consulting, informing, valuing, and
directing.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GJOW-6UbVnI In two
paragraphs of 6-10 sentences each, examine two examples of writing you
have received recently – which of the four purposes applied? How does
the purpose impact the content of the communication? Please type the
paragraphs in a Microsoft Word document (Times New Roman or Calibri,
12-point font only and double-spaced) and submit the response to me as
an attachment.

MODULE 5: ORGANIZING DOCUMENTS FOR CONCISENESS AND CLARITY
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

MODULE DESCRIPTION
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As an accountant, you will be working with a variety of colleagues and
clients, including different departments within an accounting firm.
Communicating effectively is extremely important for success, especially
if you are just beginning your career in the accounting field.

Accountants depend on all sorts of communication methods on a daily
basis. They could spend their day answering emails, responding to texts,
having face-to-face meetings, or even giving presentations. In all these
tasks, one needs to be able to relay information as concisely, quickly,
and professionally as possible.

MODULE OBJECTIVES
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After completing readings and assignments in this module, students
should be able to:

-  Write clear sentences: appropriate jargon, precise word choices,
   unambiguous modifiers, and pronouns.

-  Write readable sentences: voice, variety, and tone

-  Write unified documents that focus on main ideas and readers’
   concerns

-  Write paragraphs that focus on main ideas, and develop those ideas
   so that they are clear and coherent.

-  Organize longer documents, such as essays and discussion papers, so
   that they are coherent, with main ideas that are focused and
   developed.

***MODULE ASSIGNMENTS:*** (some assignments correspond with the
textbook)

1. Reflection Essay 2: In reflective writing, you are trying to write
down some of the thinking that you have been through while carrying out
a particular practical activity, such as writing an essay, teaching a
class or selling a product. Through reflection, you should be able to
make sense of what you did and why and perhaps help yourself to do it
better next time.  Reflective writing gives you the chance think about
what you are doing more deeply and to learn from your experience. You
have the opportunity to discover how what you are taught in class helps
you with your real-world or academic tasks. Writing your thoughts down
makes it easier for you to think about them and make connections between
what you are thinking, what you are being taught and what you are doing.
Your written reflection will also serve as a source of reference and
evidence in the future.

 

For this reflection assignment, reconsider the information learned about
audience. What did you learn about audience that you didn't know before?
What, specifically, can help you as an accountant who writes
correspondence consider audience more strongly? Were there any
assignments that really helped you learn more about audience? Do we need
to consider audience more or less when we we write? Why? You can address
some of these questions or address any issue related to audience not
addressed in these question prompts.

 

Write a reflection essay addressing the following questions above. The
reflection should be around 300 words, typed and double-spaced, and
written using Times New Roman or Calibri font only. Good writing
principles (including good use of grammar) are requirements for the
assignment.

2. Lecture Notes/Activity: Importance of Organizing Information

Lecture Notes on Organizing Information for Documents

WRIT 440

Organization is the key to clear writing. Organize your document using
key elements, an organizing principle, and an outline. Organize your
paragraphs and sentences so that your audience can understand them, and
use transitions to move from one point to the next.

Successful business writers, even accountants writing documents, must
meet their audience’s needs. Organization is one more way to do that.
When a document is well-organized, readers can easily get the
information they need. Good organization also helps readers see the
connections between ideas.

We know that time is one of the biggest constraints in modern business
communication. Most people get a lot of emails, and so often must skim.
If you can’t capture your audience’s attention in the first few seconds,
you risk losing it completely. When organizing business documents, we,
therefore, need to ask ourselves some questions:

-  What is the most important thing for the audience to know?

-  What does the audience need to know first? Second?

-  How can I draw attention to key points using organizational aids
   like headings and bullet points?

-  Will my audience understand the connections between my ideas? If
   not, how can I help them?

-  Should all the information be in the document, or should some of it
   be in attachments or links?

Using headings and subheadings, lists and paragraphs as some way to
organize a message to capture and keep your audience’s attention.

**Using Headings and Subheadings**

Headings and subheadings help to organize longer documents. Because the
text is larger and often bold, the reader’s attention is drawn to them.
Headings and subheadings are especially useful when you’re writing a
document like a report, which often has different audiences looking for
different types of information.

To write effective headings:

-  **Use parallelism:** When you start a pattern, you should keep using
   it. For example, if you started with the heading “Email Conference
   Attendees” and then used “Print Conference Brochures,” you would
   disrupt the pattern if your next heading was “Contacting Catering
   Service.”

-  **Use consistent sizes and fonts:** In your document, you might have
   different “levels” of headings. Apply the same font and size to each
   “level” of headings in your document.

-  \*\*Use limited articles: \*\*An article is a word like “the” or “a.”
   Too many of these can crowd your headings. For example, instead of
   saying “The Academic Barriers to Student Success,” you could say
   “Academic Barriers to Student Success.”

**Using Lists**

Lists are an easy way to show readers the connections between ideas.
Bullet points often draw the reader’s attention, so they’re the perfect
organizational aid for helping a reader to see the next steps or
important recommendations. Lists also remove the need for awkward
transition words like ‘firstly’ and ‘secondly.’ To write effective
lists:

-  **Use parallelism:** Again, if you start a pattern, you should
   continue it.

-  \*\*Keep between 3 to 6 bullet points: \*\*Too many bullet points are
   hard for readers to follow.

-  **Punctuate the list effectively**: If you’re using a paragraph
   list, put a colon after the topic sentence, then capitalize the
   first word.

**Writing Effective Paragraphs**

Unlike punctuation, which can be subjected to specific rules, no
ironclad guidelines exist for shaping paragraphs. If you presented a
text without paragraphs to a dozen writing instructors and asked them to
break the document into logical sections, chances are that you would
receive different opinions about the best places to break the paragraph.
In part, where paragraphs should be placed is a stylistic choice. Some
writers prefer longer paragraphs that compare and contrast several
related ideas, whereas others stick to having one point per paragraph.
In the workplace, many writers use shorter paragraphs and even use
one-line paragraphs since this allows readers to scan the document
quickly. If your readers have suggested that you take a hard look at how
you organize your ideas, or if you are unsure about when you should
begin a paragraph or how you should organize final drafts, then you can
benefit by reviewing paragraph structure.

Structuring A Paragraph

We’ve already learned that every piece of workplace communication should
have a purpose. That’s also true of paragraphs. In general, you should
have one purpose per paragraph, although for the overall flow of the
document you might want to combine two points. Let’s take a look at this
customer service email.

.. raw:: html

   <table>
   <thead>
   <tr class="header">
   <th></th>
   <th><em><strong>Purpose</strong></em></th>
   </tr>
   </thead>
   <tbody>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td><p>Dear Ms. Tran,</p>
   <p>Thank you for your patience as we investigated your missing clothing order, which you brought to our attention on Tuesday.</p></td>
   <td><em>Provides a context for writing.</em></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="even">
   <td>Once we received your email, we contacted both our warehouse and FedEx. The warehouse confirmed that your order was processed on Feb. 19th and FedEx confirmed that a shipping label was created on Feb. 20th. Unfortunately, we were not able to locate the package from that point.</td>
   <td><em>Tells the reader what the writer did to solve the problem.</em></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td><p>We are sorry for the inconvenience. Since we value your business and we know that you have been waiting for your clothes for two weeks, we would like to offer you two choices:</p>
   <ol style="list-style-type: decimal">
   <li><p>We can refund your money and give you a 25% discount toward future purchases.</p></li>
   <li><p>We can send your clothing order with free one-day shipping and still give you a 25% discount toward future purchases.</p></li>
   </ol></td>
   <td><p><em> </em></p>
   <p><em>Apologizes and offers a solution</em></p></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="even">
   <td>Please let us know which option you choose and we will immediately process your order. If you have any questions, you can also call me at 604-123-4557.</td>
   <td><em>Tells the reader what to do next.</em></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td><p>Thank you again for your patience. We appreciate your business and look forward to making this right.</p>
   <p>Sincerely,</p>
   <p>Makiko Hamimoto</p></td>
   <td><p><em> </em></p>
   <p><em>Ends the communication on a positive note, looking towards the future.</em></p></td>
   </tr>
   </tbody>
   </table>

As you can see, most of the paragraphs have only one point. In short
communication, it’s enough to simply understand what role the paragraph
plays in your writing. In longer or more important communication, you
may choose to use topic sentences to structure your paragraphs.

Exercise:

Which of the following sentences are good examples of correct and clear
business English? For sentences needing improvement, describe what is
wrong (briefly) and write a sentence that corrects the problem. You can
type answers into the submission screen or in a Microsoft Word document
and submit as an attachment.

1. 

   1.  Marlys has been chosen to receive a promotion next month.

   2.  Because her work is exemplary.

   3.  At such time as it becomes feasible, it is the intention of our
       department to facilitate a lunch meeting to congratulate Marlys

   4.  As a result of budget allocation analysis and examination of our
       financial condition, it is indicated that salary compensation
       for Marlys can be increased to a limited degree.

   5.  When will Marlys’s promotion be official?

   6.  I am so envious!

   7.  Among those receiving promotions, Marlys, Bob, Germaine, Terry,
       and Akiko.

   8.  The president asked all those receiving promotions to come to
       the meeting.

   9.  Please attend a meeting for all employees who will be promoted
       next month.

   10. Marlys intends to use her new position to mentor employees
       joining the firm, which will encourage commitment and good work
       habits.

3. Analyzing Layout and Intent in Writing: In the \ *Effective Writing: A
Handbook for Accountants* textbook, read Chapter 3 (*Coherent Writing:
Organizing Business Documents*). Then, complete exercise 3-1 on page 53.
If you decide to use the \ *Accounting Today* website, you will need to
create a guest account, which is free.

The response shoud be around 300 words. Please type the response using
Times New Roman or Calibri font only, and double-space the
document. \ **Please submit the response to me as an attachment and also
include either a copy of the article you read or a link where I can
access it**. The response will be evaluated using the writing
assignments rubric provided in Module 2.

4. Discussion Board Post 4

For this discussion board post, review the scenario below and answer the
question prompt. Be sure and use information learned from this module in
supporting the ideas/points raised in your answer.

Scenario:

The accounting department at the The Maple All-Suite Hotel has indicated
to the management that funds are available to make an upgrade to the key
card system at the hotel. The Maple All-Suite Hotel is a boutique hotel
that is located in Vancouver and has 90 rooms. The recently upgraded key
card system has received numerous guest complaints that their key cards
were malfunctioning. The employees find it challenging to use the manual
to fix the problem because it uses long and uses technical language. The
Duty Manager, Donneil Chance, was asked to extract the relevant
information from the 500-page manual and simplify the language to make
it easier for the team to understand. While doing so, she notices that
the manual has troubleshooting instructions related to all potential
guest and employee issues with the new system. However, this information
has no clear sections or headings. In hospitality, the goal is to
resolve all guest issues as quickly as possible. It would be
time-consuming for an employee to find the information they need to
solve any problems promptly using the manual in its current format.

*How should Donneil organize the required information into a simplified
manual?*

MODULE 6: MEMORANDUMS AND EMAILS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

MODULE DESCRIPTION
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

All accountants, no matter their specialty, write memorandums and emails
to a variety of people. Memorandum, sometimes called “memos” are often
used for communication within an organization—between departments, for
example, or between a supervisor and other members of the staff. Emails
are used almost universally for both personal and business use. This
module deals with how to compose a memorandum and how to use business
emails appropriately for communication within an organization and with
external constituency groups, such as individual or corporate clients.
For example, a tax accountant might write a letter seeking data about a
client’s tax situation or to clarify issues for a client. This module
deals with those issues.

MODULE OBJECTIVES
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After completing readings and assignments in this module, students
should be able to:

-  Summarize and apply the basic guidelines for writing memos

-  Organize a coherent memo, with a focus on main ideas

-  Write memos in an effective style and tone

-  Communicate via email in a professional, effective manner

***MODULE ASSIGNMENTS:*** (some assignments correspond with the
textbook)

1. In the  \ *Effective Writing: A Handbook for Accountants* textbook,
read Chapter 10 ( *Memos and Briefing Documents*) along with the
PowerPoint notes on writing memorandums. I have attached a handout which
can serve as a template for constructing memos.

 

Then, using the following scenario below, construct a memo that explains
the information. Please type the memo using Times New Roman or
Calibri font. You can use the template I provided as a guide, if
needed. The memo will be evaluated using the attached rubric.

 

Memo Scenario:

\*You discover that the client's previous tax returns from last year,
which someone else prepared, listed a deduction of $3,000 in excess of
the actual expenditure. This mistake was not intention and the IRS will
probably not detect the error. You can present the client with two
options: change the error, which might cost the client additional
liability OR prepare the return from the previous year so that the
mistake was yours (as the tax preparer). Create a price structure for
each option. Indicate to the client that you want to meet to discuss
these options. \*

 

For this assignment, feel free to add any additional information that
you feel the client would want to know about each option (this can come
from your own experiences, knowledge from other courses, etc).  You can
be creative with some of the information in the memo, such as name,
date, etc. 

 

Please submit the completed memo as an attachment.

    \*\*Memorandum \*\*

| To:       WRIT 440 Students
| From:
| Date:    September 16, 2019
| Re:       How to Write a Memo

Your instructor has asked you to write a memo, which is the most common
form of written communication in business. In order to perform this task
successfully, you should conform to general business standards of
content, format, structure and language use. Business Memo’s also follow
the “ABC” Abstract/Body/Conclusion Format.

| **Content**
| The first rule of writing a good memo is "Get to the point!" The second
  rule is "Know what your point is." *Before* you start writing, be sure
  that you know what your "answer" is to the boss's or colleague's
  question. Do not include all your thinking in the memo. While several
  pages of thinking might get written as you come up with the answer, the
  memo includes *only* the answer. Citations, financials, or
  justifications that must be available to the reader can be added as
  appendices. The memo should include only those ideas that are required
  for the reader's action or decision.

| **Format**
| This memo is an example of memo format. Note especially the routing
  information, the use of headings, and the single spaced block
  paragraphs.  If your memo *looks* like a memo, there's a better chance a
  business reader will take your ideas seriously. 

| **Structure**
| The typical memo is only two or three paragraphs and fits on one page.
  The first paragraph summarizes the main idea of the whole memo (often
  called the “abstract”), then the main points are covered in the same
  order they were previewed (the body). Again, this memo provides an
  example of the typical structure. The last part of the memo should be a
  “conclusion” where you tell the reader what the next steps in the
  process might be.

| **Language Use**
| A memo is often less formal than a letter but should still be written
  with a businesslike tone. You can be friendly, but not cute. Your
  professional image depends on perfect spelling and grammar, but you can
  usually get away with a few "down home" expressions. Edit for wordiness
  and get directly to the point. Use language to communicate your ideas
  effectively and efficiently.

.. raw:: html

   <table>
   <tbody>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td></td>
   <td><strong>WRIT 440: Memo Rubric</strong></td>
   <td></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="even">
   <td><strong>1.</strong></td>
   <td><strong>Format and Adherence to the Assignment (10 points)</strong></td>
   <td></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td></td>
   <td><ul>
   <li><p>The appropriate title appears at the top (Memorandum).</p></li>
   <li><p>The appropriate headings appear (Date, To, From, and Subject) with 2-3 blank lines after.</p></li>
   <li><p>Job titles follow names and department names follow titles (unless writer and reader are in the same department).</p></li>
   <li><p>The writer’s handwritten initials appear after his/her name in the From line.</p></li>
   <li><p>Memo is left justified with no paragraph indents and one blank line in between paragraphs.</p></li>
   <li><p>Memo text is single-spaced.</p></li>
   <li><p>No formal salutation or closing lines appear.</p></li>
   <li><p>Appropriate end notations appear if necessary.</p></li>
   <li><p>Conventions outlined in book and class are followed.</p></li>
   <li><p>Memo follows the assignment criteria in terms of form and content (i.e. uses correct information provided from the textbook reading/assignment in order to create the memo)</p></li>
   </ul></td>
   <td></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="even">
   <td><strong>2.</strong></td>
   <td><strong>Style (10)</strong></td>
   <td></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td></td>
   <td><ul>
   <li><p>An appropriate amount of detail is given; memo is complete while being brief and concise.</p></li>
   <li><p>Information in the memo is well organized; the writing is cohesive and flows well.</p></li>
   <li><p>Memo efficiently conveys clearly the intent and information of the memo.</p></li>
   <li><p>Text is broken into logical paragraphs with good paragraph structure.</p></li>
   <li><p>The words selected most accurately and effectively convey meaning.</p></li>
   <li><p>The memo is culturally sensitive and is free from regional terminology and unfamiliar jargon.</p></li>
   </ul></td>
   <td></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="even">
   <td><strong>3.</strong></td>
   <td><strong>Grammar, Mechanics, and Punctuation (5)</strong></td>
   <td></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td></td>
   <td><ul>
   <li><p>Rules of American English grammar and usage are appropriately applied.</p></li>
   <li><p>Spelling is correct and the essay has been carefully proofread.</p></li>
   <li><p>Subjects and verbs agree.</p></li>
   <li><p>Verb tense is consistent and appropriate.</p></li>
   <li><p>Passive voice is used only when needed and effective.</p></li>
   <li><p>Sentence structure and word order follow American English grammar and usage conventions.</p></li>
   <li><p>Commas, semi-colons, periods, and dashes are used correctly.</p></li>
   </ul>
   <ul>
   <li><p>Run-on sentences, comma splices, and sentences fragments are eliminated.</p></li>
   <li><p>Conventions of capitalization are followed correctly.</p></li>
   <li><p>Punctuation rules and conventions are adhered to (apostrophes, parentheses, etc.).</p></li>
   <li><p>Expletives (it, there) and unclear demonstratives (this, that, these, those without a noun) are avoided.</p></li>
   </ul></td>
   <td></td>
   </tr>
   </tbody>
   </table>

2. In the  \ *Effective Writing: A Handbook for Accountants* textbook,
read Chapter 12 ( *Memos and Briefing Documents*)  Read Chapter 12 in
the textbook, which focuses on E-Communication and Social Media. Next,
review the following Youtube presentation on writing effective emails,
located here:   \ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dAqkBwruxT8\ `\*
\* <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=amJZXjxnhTI>`__

In the submission box, think about a poor  email that you received
(either from a colleague, friend, family member, etc). What made the
email poor? What could the writer have done to make it better? The
answer to this question should be a well-written paragraph of six-to-ten
(6-10) sentences. 

 

Please type the answer in the submission box and submit it to me.

3. Review the information contained within the memo assignment. Review
the decision you made in the memo with the client (either to send in an
amended tax return or do complete the return yourself). Then, using the
proper email conventions, compose an email to your boss, Howard Knotts,
explaining what you are doing on behalf of the client and how much time
this will take. 

 

As with the memo assignment, you can be creative with the date, amount
of time it will take, name of the client, etc. Please type the memo
using Times New Roman or Calibri font and submit the memo to me as an
attachment.

 

The email will be evaluated using the attached rubric. 

**WRIT 440: Business Email Rubric**

.. raw:: html

   <table>
   <thead>
   <tr class="header">
   <th></th>
   <th>0</th>
   <th>1</th>
   <th>2</th>
   <th>3</th>
   <th>Total</th>
   </tr>
   </thead>
   <tbody>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td>Email Header</td>
   <td>Email has no heading</td>
   <td>Email has incomplete heading; missing the address or date.</td>
   <td>Email has complete heading, but missing appropriate punctuation.</td>
   <td>Email has a complete address and date with proper punctuation</td>
   <td></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="even">
   <td>Salutation</td>
   <td>Email has no salutation</td>
   <td>Attempts salutation, missing title, proper punctuation</td>
   <td>Has salutation, but missing proper punctuation</td>
   <td>Complete salutation.</td>
   <td></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td>Body</td>
   <td>Email has no organized paragraphs.</td>
   <td>Email has a body of one or more organized paragraphs and these paragraphs are not indented.</td>
   <td>Email has a body of one organized paragraph and this paragraph is indented.</td>
   <td>Email has a body of two or more organized paragraphs and each paragraph is indented.</td>
   <td></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="even">
   <td>Closing</td>
   <td>Email has no closing.</td>
   <td>Email has incorrect closing.</td>
   <td>Email has appropriate closing, but missing proper punctuation.</td>
   <td>Email has complete appropriate closing.</td>
   <td></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td>Signature</td>
   <td>Email has no typed signature.</td>
   <td>Email has incorrect project signature.</td>
   <td>Email has appropriate typed project signature, but missing proper punctuation.</td>
   <td>Email has appropriate typed project signature.</td>
   <td></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="even">
   <td>Mechanics</td>
   <td>Email has four or more spelling errors and/or grammatical errors.</td>
   <td>Email has three misspellings and/or grammatical errors.</td>
   <td>Email has no more than two misspellings and/or grammatical errors.</td>
   <td>Email has no misspellings or grammatical errors</td>
   <td></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="odd">
   <td>Typing Skills</td>
   <td>Email has many typing errors.</td>
   <td>Email has three or more typing errors.</td>
   <td>Email has no more than two typing errors.</td>
   <td>Email has no typing errors.</td>
   <td></td>
   </tr>
   <tr class="even">
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td><strong>Total</strong></td>
   <td>____/25</td>
   </tr>
   </tbody>
   </table>

MODULE 7: ETHICS IN ACCOUNTING
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

MODULE DESCRIPTION
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Objectivity and independence are important ethical values in the
accounting profession. Accountants must remain free from conflicts of
interest and other questionable business relationships when conducting
accounting services. This module discusses ethics in accounting and
provides an opportunity to analyze and reflect upon some ethical
scenarios in accounting.

MODULE OBJECTIVES
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After completing readings and assignments in this module, students
should be able to:

-  Learn the importance of honesty in accounting

-  Identify the effects of poor ethics in accounting

-  Learn the importance of honesty in accounting

-  Analyze sample ethical scenarios for content and reason

-  Write a small analysis defending choices made to resolve an ethical
   dilemma in accounting

***MODULE ASSIGNMENTS:*** (some assignments correspond with the
textbook)

1. Understanding Ethics and the Accounting Profession

Before opening the attachments connected with this assignment/lesson,
please view the following Youtube link about Ethics in
Accounting:  \ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AeBFPAOU-3U

Please review the following information on ethics in accounting, which
focuses on what an ethical issue in accounting actually "is," the
effects of poor ethics in accounting, and the importance of honesty in
accounting.

Then, view the following case study on "It was Just a Careless
Mistake"  \ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZwFyASop8nc. \ **Please
note: this case study was completed using a computer graphics and
simulation program and could be difficult to follow. Close-captioning
can be activated (by selecting the option on the lower-right hand side
of the screen) if needed for additional understanding of
words/phrases/sentences.**

Once you have finished viewing the case study, review the "Learning
Points" information at the end of the presentation. Which item(s) in the
list did you find the most damaging or most unethical? Why? Is there one
specific employee that should ultimately be held responsible? Why or why
not? The response to these questions should be around one page in length
(typed and double-spaced, using Times New Roman or Calibri font only).

Please submit the response to me as an attachment.

\*\*Ethical Issues Facing the Accounting

    Profession\*\*

    |image0|\ `**smallbusiness.chron.com**/ethical-issues-facing-accounting-profession-18307.html <http://smallbusiness.chron.com/ethical-issues-facing-accounting-profession-18307.html>`__

An accountant working in the public or private sector must remain
impartial and loyal to ethical guidelines when reviewing a company or
individual's financial records for reporting purposes. An accountant
frequently encounters ethical issues regardless of the industry and must
remain continually vigilant to reduce the chances of outside forces
manipulating financial records, which could lead to both ethical and
criminal violations.

Pressure From Management

The burden for public companies to succeed at high levels may place
undue stress and pressure on accountants creating balance sheets and
financial statements. The ethical issue for these accountants becomes
maintaining true reporting of company assets, liabilities and profits
without giving in to the pressure placed on them by management or
corporate officers. Unethical accountants could easily alter company
financial records and maneuver numbers to paint false pictures of
company successes. This may lead to short-term prosperity, but altered
financial records will ultimately spell the downfall of companies when
the Securities and Exchange Commission discovers the fraud.

Accountant as Whistleblower

An accountant may face the ethical dilemma of reporting discovered
accounting violations to the Financial

Accounting Standards Board. While it is an ethical accountant's duty to
report such violations, the dilemma arises in the ramifications of the
reporting. Government review of company financial records and the bad
press caused by an accounting scandal could cause the company's rapid
decline and may lead to the layoff of thousands of employees.

Executives and other corporate officers could also face criminal
prosecution, leading to heavy fines and prison time.

The Effects of Greed

Greed in the business and finance world leads to shaving ethical
boundaries and stepping around safeguards in the name of making more
money. An accountant can never let the desire to earn a better living
and acquire more possessions get in the way of ensuring that she follows
ethical guidelines for financial reporting. An accountant who keeps her
eyes on her own bank account more than on her company's balance sheet
becomes a liability to the company and may cause real accounting
violations, resulting in sanctions from the SEC.

Omission of Financial Records

A corporate officer or other executive may ask an accountant to omit or
leave out certain financial figures from a balance sheet that may paint
the business in a bad light to the public and investors. Omission may
not seem like a

significant breach of accounting ethics to an accountant because it does
not involve direct manipulation of numbers or records. This is precisely
why an accountant must remain ethical.

2. Ethics in Accounting Case Studies Open the following link below,
which presents two different ethical scenarios in accounting. Choose one
of the case studies. Then, answer the question associated with the case
study, drawing on information from the handouts as well as your own
values, beliefs, experiences, etc. and the information provided within
the case study itself. The response should be no more than 300 words.
Please type the response in Times New Roman or Calibri font only and
double-space the document. Submit the document as an attachment. The
response will be evaluated using the writing assignments rubric from
Module
3.\ https://www.cpajournal.com/2017/10/12/icymi-ethical-dilemmas-facing-cpas-three-case-studies/

Discussion Board Post 5: Whose Money is it, anyway? Please review the
following accounting ethical scenario. Then, respond to the question
associated with the scenario. Then, respond to at least two (2) of your
classmates' posts. \ **Your initial response is due by Wednesday, March 8
at midnight. Responses to your classmates' posts are due by Friday,
March 10 at midnight.**

*Scenario:*

*Rosalie works as the controller in a moderate-sized non-profit
organization dedicated to enhancing access to clean water and food in
developing countries. The organization she works for is fairly
well-known because of the organization's fundraising strategy.
Specifically, Rosalie's company buys numerous long TV spots that air
during the overnight hours. Using images from some of the organization's
most important projects, viewers are shown just how much their donations
could help people of these impoverished, often war-torn regions.*

*A recent change at the executive level has placed her in an
increasingly unenviable position. The new CEO is not quite ''by the
book'' in terms of his expense account. Walking in to the office one
day, Rosalie is surprised to see a truly magnificent salt-water fish
tank, a new addition to the lobby. The tank is several hundred gallons
in size, and holds several thousand dollars worth of exotic fish. When
she asks a colleague where it came from, her co-worker tells her the CEO
purchased it. ''I guess everybody has their hobby.'' Rosalie mutters
under her breath.*

*Her mild annoyance at the expensive hobby turns decidedly darker a few
weeks later when the CEO's purchasing card has charges totaling nearly
$3,000 for what he labeled ''miscellaneous facilities expenses.'' As
Rosalie suspects, most of that money was ''invested'' in the fish tank.
Later that night as Rosalie watches TV, one of her organization's
2-minute TV spots rolls. The spot claws at the heart as it depicts
people whose lives have been destroyed by poverty and violence. When the
spot ends with the usual appeal for a''gift'' of $30 a month, Rosalie
feels ill. ''I doubt anyone picking up the phone right now is aware that
part of their donation is funding a massive fish tank!'' What, if
anything, should Rosalie do right now if she wants to demonstrate the
highest regard for professional ethics?*

.. |image0| image:: media/image1.png