==================
WRIT 102
==================
.. admonition:: See Also

    :doc:`writ102rg`

.. sidebar:: Contents
    
    .. contents::
        :local:
        :depth: 1

Course Design
-------------

WRIT 102 (First-Year Writing II) is a theme-based, first-year,
second-semester writing course designed to build on writing skills
learned in either WRIT 100 or WRIT 101 and develop critical thinking and
research skills appropriate for use in academic writing. The course pays
special attention to developing argumentative skills, analyzing texts,
and synthesizing information into thoughtful, coherent essays and
projects.

The five themes are Business, Environment, Food, Pop Culture, and
Power/Privilege. Each theme will use different readings from different
textbooks, but the learning outcomes of the course and the assignments
remain the same. The prerequisite for WRIT 102 is the successful
completion (at least a D) in WRIT 100/101 or other similar course or AP
credit. Classes are limited to 21 students. WRIT 102 is similar to LIBA
102 in that both fulfill the same requirements for graduation; Students
will take either WRIT 102 or LIBA 102, but should not take both.

Each WRIT 102 instructor will be assigned a subject librarian who can
lead or assist instruction in using library services. WRIT 102
instructors should coordinate with this librarian by sharing assignments
and learning goals. It is courteous for instructors to stay with the
class during this instruction period. If instructors plan to miss class
during this library visit, they should arrange to have another W&R
instructor there. The librarians have also created `courses pages for
WRIT 102 <http://guides.lib.olemiss.edu/writ102?hs=a>`__ which can be
found here.

Instructors should hold at least one mandatory conference with students.
It is recommended that this is done during the research paper drafts.
Instructors may cancel classes to hold these conferences but
cancellations should be comparable to the number of courses one teaches
and should not extend beyond one week.

As is the case in every writing course, peer review and timely
instructor feedback are important to student success.

.. admonition:: Sample Syllabus

    `Sample WRIT 102 Syllabus <https://olemiss.box.com/s/gfo9m67xbyss3vwuvg8q4pivkj99x79d>`__

Required Texts
--------------

**Each Theme has a Separate Textbook**

================== ============================================================================================
Theme              Book 
================== ============================================================================================
Business           *Money*, Fountainhead Press
Environment        *American* Earth, Library of America
Food               *Food: A Reader for Writers*, Oxford University Press (spring: Food Common Read)
Power & Privilege  *Rereading *America*, 10th edition, Bedford/St. Martins
Pop Culture        *Reading Pop Culture: A Portable Anthology*, 2nd edition, Bedford/St. Martin’s
================== ============================================================================================

Assignment Sequence
-------------------

WRIT 102 has six major assignments in roughly this sequence: Analysis,
Synthesis, In-Class, Research, Multimodal, Commonplace Book. Each paper
assignment should teach fundamentals of academic writing, including
learning to find and evaluate sources, learning how to integrate and
cite these sources correctly, and learning how to create a unique thesis
in response to these sources.

.. admonition:: See Also

    :doc:`/alib/writing/writ102`


Major Projects
--------------

Students compose six major projects. A brief overview of each project,
with a description of the areas students usually struggle with, is
provided below.

Analysis
~~~~~~~~~

Paper #1 is an analysis of a single text. This can be a response paper
to an author’s argument or a profile or analysis of a person, place, or
thing. It should be 3-4 pages with at least a single entry on the Works
Cited page and is worth 10-15% of the student’s final grade.

.. admonition:: Areas to Highlight

    This assignment will help students learn to look
    closely at a text (academic or otherwise) and begin the fundamentals of
    quoting and citation. Because some students may have had a disruption in
    time between a WRIT 100/101/equivalent course and a WRIT 102 course, it
    is recommended that instructors go over thesis statements and paragraph
    construction. Students may also need help in understanding the
    difference between summary and analysis.

Synthesis
~~~~~~~~~~

Paper #2 is a synthesis paper where students weigh at least two
different arguments and synthesize a thesis in relation to these
arguments. The skills learned in the synthesis paper should support the
work done for the research paper. To that end, the WRIT 102 curriculum
committee has offered two different tracks for the synthesis paper in
the assignment library, with the recognition that these approaches are
not necessarily mutually exclusive. The first track practices locating,
evaluating, and synthesizing sources, and the second track, focuses on
developing a unique position in response to given texts. For either
track, students should engage with 2-3 sources and practice citation in
a 4-5 page paper. The Synthesis paper is worth 15-20% of the student’s
final grade.

This is probably the most difficult assignment in the WRIT 102 sequence.
Students are confused about what defines a synthesis essay because it
does not fit into familiar and practiced models of writing. The WRIT 102
committee, after lengthy discussions, essentially agrees with this
assessment because of our own divergent opinions. See the WRIT 102
synthesis in the assignment library for more information on this
discussion and the committee’s conclusion.

.. admonition:: Areas to Highlight

    Instructors should go over plagiarism issues such as
    correct citation and using paraphrases as well as other skills that will
    help students succeed in the research paper. Students struggle with
    balancing their sources; students may also have trouble maintaining
    their writing voice in relation to the sources. If using two sources,
    students may need help in avoiding a compare and contrast paper.

In-Class Essay
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The in-class essay is a timed writing exercise where students may do
similar work as in papers 1 and 2 in that students might be asked to
respond to a particular text or argument or evaluate a text’s argument.
This may be related to paper #3, the research paper. The in-class essay
is worth 5-10% of the student’s final grade.

.. admonition:: Areas to Highlight

    Timed writing can be intimidating to many students.
    Going over strategies to alleviate stress will be useful for this
    assignment and for future timed writing situations. Further, students
    may believe the writing process does not apply to timed essays but
    instructors should model how to use brainstorming/outlining, drafting,
    and revision in this context, with special attention to time management.
    Students who do not do well in this assignment often do not prepare for
    the in-class essay or do not read the prompt carefully. Instructors may
    also opt for a practice timed essay in class. Students who need special
    accommodation should provide the appropriate paperwork from `Student
    Disability Services <http://sds.olemiss.edu/accomodations/>`__.

Research Paper
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Paper #3 is the research paper where students will develop a research
question relevant to the class theme. This paper should be 7-9 pages and
use at least seven credible sources. This assignment is worth 25% of the
student’s final grade.

.. admonition:: Areas to Highlight

    This is the most intimidating assignment for
    students. Many of them may have never written this length of paper. Some
    may have only written an “informational” research paper and not an
    argumentative one. Since the class spends nearly a month of class
    periods on this assignment, the sequence of homework assignments,
    in-class work, and other elements of the process are important to a
    student’s success. Emphasize their many avenues of support – the
    instructor, their peers, the consultants in the Writing Center, and the
    reference librarians.

Multimodal
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The multimodal assignment revises the research paper into another mode.
This assignment is worth 10-15% of the student’s final grade.

.. admonition:: Areas to Highlight

    This assignment is perhaps the most individualized
    by theme; however, problems with technology will the biggest issue.
    Instructors should take advantage of Andrew Davis (Lamar Hall Ste. B, Rm
    1)  to learn how to teach the technology to students. Instructors should
    keep in mind that this assignment can be as low or high tech as wanted.

    In general, since this assignment is most often paired with the research
    papers, students may be tired of their subject or be reluctant to cut
    their papers. Further, failures in the paper version may translate to
    problems with the multimodal project. Try to return the research paper
    back as quickly as possible to alleviate this issue and try not to
    double-penalize them.

Commonplace Book
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The commonplace book is a personalized space for recording, organizing,
and reflecting on a student’s learning. This semester-long project
incorporates daily, weekly, and unit reflections, culminating in a final
reflective post. This assignment is worth 15% of the student’s final
grade.

.. admonition:: Areas to Highlight

    Students are generally unfamiliar with
    self-reflection and metacognition and need many opportunities throughout
    the semester to practice. Many will need help with being more specific
    about their learning. Students may have difficulty demonstrating their
    progress, or lack thereof, through examples, often resorting to more
    telling than showing. Students may also struggle to understand how
    tagging can be a mechanism to represent the larger structures of their
    learning.


Themes
------

There are five themes for WRIT 102. Each theme is based on the same
assignment sequence and outcomes, but may use different texts.

Pop Culture
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We are surrounded by a constant stream of pop culture from films, music,
television, social media, advertising, and many other media. But how
often do we stop to ask ourselves what it all means? In this theme of
WRIT 102, we will examine the various ways in which we influence and are
influenced by pop culture. Some questions we may attempt to answer are:
How are we affected by advertising? What can we learn from television,
film, and music? What are the roles of race and gender in popular
culture? Students should come into this course prepared to examine
critically and thoroughly a variety of media and sources that are often
disregarded or taken for granted.

.. admonition:: Required Texts:

    * Maasik, Sonia and Jack Solomon, eds. *Signs of Life in the USA: Readings on Popular Culture for Writers*. 8th Edition. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin's, 2012.
    * Reading Pop Culture: A Portable Anthology,* 2nd edition, Bedford/St. Martin's

Power and Privilege
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Systems of power and privilege create more than just acts of
discrimination in our culture, and yet these systems are invisible to
many people. This course, through a variety of readings, videos, and
supplemental material, will attempt to uncover and analyze the ways
Power/Privilege manifest in the U.S. through issues of race, gender,
class, ability, sexual orientation, and others. Students will learn to
engage this material through rhetorical techniques and strategies in a
way that enables them to join these cultural and social justice
conversations with conviction and credibility. The course may explore
such questions as: How does socioeconomic status from an early age
impact one’s path in life? Why is it so challenging to discuss systemic
issues of racism in America? How do traditional gender roles hurt
American men?

.. admonition:: Required Texts:

    * Columbo, Gary, Robert Cullen, and Bonnie Lisle. *Rereading America* 10th edition. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s, 2016.li>
    * Hacker, Diana, and Nancy Sommers. *A Writer’s Reference with Writing in the Disciplines*. 8th ed. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s, 2011

Food
~~~~~~

This WRIT 102 class explores writings and arguments about food in the
United States. Among many topics, we may read about the beginnings of
food and the politics of the planting, growing, and cultivation of meat
and vegetables, exploring such questions such as “should farmers receive
corn subsidies?” and “should there be government regulation on
genetically modified foods?” We may then study the effects that food has
on those who eat it. We may explore such questions as “How and why has
our diet changed over time?” and “What has contributed to the obesity
epidemic in Mississippi?”

.. admonition:: Required Texts:

    * Rollins, Brooke and Lee Bauknight, eds. *Food* Southlake, TX: Fountainhead Press, 2011.
    * *Food: A Reader for Writers* Oxford University Press (Spring Semesters- SFA/DWR Common Read)
    * **For Spring only:** Common read co-sponsored by the Southern Foodways Alliance and the DWR.

Environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~

What is the meaning of ecology and nature? What counts as an
environment? How do current issues about our environment affect our
daily lives? How do we begin to connect with and investigate the real
issues of impacting local ecologies and environments? We will read and
analyze a variety of genres—literary, social commentary, cultural
analyses, theory, and philosophy that relate to our theme.

.. admonition:: Required Texts:

    * McKibben, Bill, ed. *American Earth: Environmental Writing since Thoreau*. Library of America, 2008
    * Hacker, Diana, and Nancy Sommers. *A Writer’s Reference with Writing in the Disciplines*. 8th ed. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s, 2011.

Business
~~~~~~~~~

How many economic decisions have you made today? From what you had for
breakfast to what you decided to wear to class, your choices have been
influenced by businesses, both local and global. But there may be some
issues of which you are many not even be aware. In this class we will
explore a variety of questions related to business, including, but not
limited to: is Wal-Mart good for America? Should corporations have the
same legal rights as that of an individual person? Is out-sourcing jobs
a good idea? What ethical obligations does a business have to the
environment? to our health? to the nation?

.. admonition:: Required Texts:

    * Gillam, Kenneth M, ed. *Money*. Southlake, TX: Fountainhead Press, 2011.
    * Hacker, Diana, and Nancy Sommers. *A Writer’s Reference with Writing in the Disciplines*. 8th ed. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s, 2011.

--------------

Grading
-------

Rubrics for each project are available on the assignment library. There
is a general essay rubric which can be used with papers 1, 2, 3, and the
in-class essay. The multimodal and ePortfolio project have separate
rubrics.

Sharing the rubric with students at the beginning of each unit, and
using the rubric to determine the project’s final grade, helps students
understand the expectations for each project and the reasons for the
final grade. Using the rubric to determine grades also provides
consistency across sections of Writing courses. Projects should be
graded within one week of submission.
